                  G U E S S  - A -  N U M B E R

               By Charles Martin 


Guess-a-number, will be called NUMBER in this document, is a 1 or
two player game where the object is to guess the other player's
number in as few turns as possible.


PLAYERS AND OBJECT OF NUMBER
     NUMBER is a one or two player game.  In 1-player mode, you
play against a computer opponent, which will pick the numbers for
you to guess.  In a 2-player game, players take turns; one makes
a number while another tries to guess it.  Whoever guessed the
last number will make the number in the next game.


A GUIDE THROUGH THE 1-PLAYER GAME MODE
     When you first load the program, it will ask you for the
number of players.  You should push '1' to play 1 player.  Next,
your computer will ask you if you want sound.  You hear sounds
when your guess is too small, too big, or if you guess the right
number. Choose wheather you want sound or not.  (Press Y or N
when it talks about sound.)

     Now, you will enter your name.  Type in a name for your
player.  Your name can have between 2 and 14 letters in it.  Now
you will see the name of your computer player.  The computer
picks one name out of 100 to use.  Not many games have that!  You
will be asked how high of a number the computer can pick.  Hit Y
to choose how high the computer's number can go.  If you put in a
new number, do not use commas (,) in the number.  Choose N to let
the computer player pick from 1 to 10,000.

     Enough questions!  Let's play the game!  The highest number
the computer can pick from is displayed at the top of the screen.

To play, just type in a number.  It can be between 1 and the
number you allowed the computer to pick to.  you will be told if
your guess is too high or too low.  Try it until you get it! 
When you do, it will show you the number you just guessed, and
the number of turns it took you to guess it.  If sound is on, you
will hear a little tune.

     After you win a game, you will be asked if you want to play
again.  Hit Y to continue, N to quit the game.  If you want to
switch to two player, press Y and read the next question.  Now
the computer wants to know about the next game.   If you want to
play with the same number of players, and names, hit the Y key. 
To change to 2-player, or to choose different 1-player settings,
press N.

How to play a 2-player game
     A two player game is just as easy to play.  When you load
the game, press 2 for two players.  Choose wheather or not you
want sound on or off.

     Now input names.  You will be asked for the guessing
player's name.  Put in the name of the player that will guess the
first number.  The other name entry is for the player that's
making the first number to guess.  After name input, choose the
highest number that can be picked by the player making up the
number.  Press Y to change, N to accept; up to 10,000

     The player creating the number will now put in the number
for the other player to guess.  The guessing player should close
their eyes or leave the room so the number isn't seen.  It's like
battleship, don't let 'em see your ships.)

     After there is a number, the guessing player tries to guess
it.  You will be told if your guess is too high or too low.  Try
it until you get it.  When you guess it, you will see the number
you just guessed, and the number of turns it took you to guess
the right number.

     After you win a game, you will be asked if you want to play
again.  Hit Y to continue, N to quit the game.  If you want to
switch to one player, press Y and read the next question.  Now
the computer wants to know about the next game.   If you want to
play with the same number of players, and names, hit the Y key. 
To change to 1-player, or to choose different 2-player settings,
press N.


Other info

Development:   This game was developed and compiled using
               Microsoft QBasic 4.5  This is version 3 of the
               program.

support Files: To run this game, you only need NUMBER.EXE.  No   
               other files are required.

Copyright:     This software was created by Charles Martin,
It may be distributed, only with the program
and this document together.
