Gin Rummy Rules

Introduction

Gin Rummy is one of the most popular forms of rummy. Two 
players generally play the game, each receiving ten cards. 

----------The Deck----------
One standard deck of 52 cards is used. Cards in each suit rank,
From low to high: 

   Ace 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Jack Queen King.

The cards have values as follows: 

     Face cards (K,Q,J)      10 points 
     Ace                      1 point
     Number cards are worth their spot (number) value.


----------The Deal----------
The first dealer is chosen randomly, and the turn to deal alternates 
between the players. Each player is dealt ten cards, one at a time. 
The twenty-first card is turned face up to start the discard pile and 
the remainder of the deck is placed face down beside it to form the 
stock. The players look at and sort their cards. 


----------Object of the Game----------
The object of the game is to arrange as many as possible of the ten 
cards in your hand into sets. There are two kinds of sets:  
sequences and groups. 

A sequence consists of three or more cards of the same suit in 
consecutive order, such as 4, 5, 6 or 8, 9, 10, J.   A group is three 
or four cards of the same rank, such as 7, 7, 7. 

A card can belong to only one set at a time - you cannot use the 
same card as part of both a group and a sequence. 


----------Play----------
A normal turn consists of two parts:

1.  The Draw. You must begin by taking one card from either the 
top of the stockpile or the top card on the discard pile, and adding 
it to your hand. The discard pile is face up, so you can see in 
advance what you are getting.  The stock is face down, so if you 
choose to draw from the stock you do not see the card until after 
you have committed yourself to take it. If you draw from the stock, 
you add the card to your hand without showing it to the other 
player(s).  

2.  The Discard To complete your turn, one card must be    
discarded from your hand and placed on top of the discard pile face 
up.  After discarding a card, announce the rank and suit of the card 
that you just discarded to mark the end of your turn.  For example, 
you would say "six of spades." After discarding the six of spades.     
If you took the top card from the discard pile, you must discard a 
different card - taking the top discard and putting the same card 
back is not permitted. 

For the first turn of the hand, the draw is done in a special way. 
First, the person who did not deal chooses whether to take the 
turned up card. If the non-dealer declines it, the dealer may take 
the card. If both players refuse the turned-up card, the non-dealer 
draws the top card from the stockpile.  Whichever player took a 
card completes their turn by discarding and then it is the other 
player's turn to play. 


----------Knocking----------
The play ends when a player knocks. This can be done on any turn 
(including the first), immediately after drawing, provided that you 
can form sufficient of your cards into sets. Having knocked, you 
complete your turn by discarding one card as usual  (face down on 
the discard pile) and then spreading your remaining cards face up 
on the table, arranged as far as possible into groups and sequences.  
Any remaining cards from your hand, which are not part of a set, 
are called unmatched cards or deadwood. In order to be allowed to 
knock, the total value of your unmatched cards must be ten points 
or less. Knocking with no unmatched cards at all is called going 
gin, and earns a special bonus. 

You are never forced to knock. A player who is able to knock may 
choose instead to carry on playing, to try to get a better score. 

The opponent of the player who knocked must then spread their 
cards face-up, arranging them into sets where possible.  Provided 
that the knocker did not go gin, the opponent is also allowed to lay 
off any unmatched cards by using them to extend the sets laid 
down by the knocker - by adding a fourth card of the same rank to 
a group of three, or further consecutive cards of the same suit to 
either end of a sequence.

If a player goes gin, the opponent is not allowed to lay off any 
cards.  Note that the knocker is never allowed to lay off cards on 
the opponent's sets. 

The play also ends if the stockpile is reduced to two cards, and the 
player who took the third last card discards without knocking. In 
this case the hand is cancelled, there is no score, and the same 
dealer deals again. 


----------Scoring----------
Each player counts the total value of his or her unmatched cards. If 
the knocker's count is lower, the knocker scores the difference 
between the two counts. 

If the knocker did not go gin, and the counts are equal, or the 
knocker's count is greater than that of the opponent, the knocker 
has been undercut. In this case the knocker's opponent scores the 
difference between the counts plus a 25-point bonus. 

A player who goes gin scores a bonus 25 points, plus the 
opponent's count in unmatched cards, if any. A player who goes 
gin can never be undercut. Even if the other player has no 
unmatched cards at all, the knocker gets the 25-point bonus the 
other player scores nothing. 

The game continues with further deals until one player's 
cumulative score reaches 100 points or more. 


----------Rule variations----------
Some players begin the game differently: the non-dealer receives 
11 cards and the dealer 10, and no card is turned up.  The non-
dealer's first turn is simply to discard a card, after which the dealer 
takes a normal turn, drawing the discard or from the stock, and 
play alternates as usual. 

Some people play that the bonus for going gin is 20 (rather than
25) and the bonus for an undercut is 20 (rather than 25).


----------Oklahoma Gin----------
In this popular variation the value of the original face up card 
determines the maximum count of unmatched cards with which it 
is possible to knock. Picture cards denote 10 as usual. Therefore, if 
a seven is turned up, in order to knock you must reduce your count 
to 7 or fewer. 

If the original face up card is a spade, the final score for that deal 
(including any undercut or gin bonus) is doubled. 

The target score for winning Oklahoma Gin is generally set at 150 
rather than 100. 

Some play that if an ace is turned up you may only knock if you 
can go gin. 

----------Playing with 3 or 4 Players.----------
When three people play gin rummy, the dealer deals to the other 
two players but does not take part in the play. The loser of each 
hand deals the next, which is therefore played between the winner 
and the dealer of the previous hand. 

Four people can play as two partnerships. In this case, each player 
in a team plays a separate game with one of the opposing pair.  
Players alternate opponents, but stay in the same teams. At the end 
of each hand, if both players on a team won, the team scores the 
total of their points. If one player from each team won, the team 
with the higher scores scores the difference. The first team whose 
cumulative score reaches 125 points or more wins.
